We like for you to picture this scene.
You're with thousands of your brothers and sisters at a convention.
You're riveted with the brother who's giving, delivering this beautiful talk.
He's actually giving some instruction about the great tribulation and what we need to do now
to go through that great tribulation loyally.
But then a man steps up to the platform and addresses the speaker and says,
my brother is the executor of my father's will and he's cutting me out.
I deserve more.
I lay for you to step down from the platform, come over and talk some sense to my brother.
Well, as ridiculous as that sounds, this really did happen 2,000 years ago.
And as was brought up by our commenter at Luke chapter 12,
Jesus was speaking to a large crowd.
In fact, in Luke chapter 12 and verse 1, it says that there was a crowd of so many thousands
that had gathered together that they were stepping on one another.
So try to imagine the scene.
All were trying to crowd, try to crowd closer to Jesus.
They wanted to listen what he had to say.
There were some that were sitting, some were standing.
They were on the ground. They were on rocks.
They were trying to go under a shade tree.
Maybe it was sunny.
Maybe the sun was in their eyes.
Babies were crying.
So all kinds of distractions were taking place.
But yet Jesus continued focusing on his message.
Yes, Jesus was speaking to some of those followers about important spiritual matters.
Some of those spiritual matters were designed to prepare them for opposition that lay ahead
and how they can tap in to Jehovah's Holy Spirit and be successful.
And just then we read in Luke chapter 12 and verse 13,
the man has his request.
He says, teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.
What was the man thinking?
It had nothing to do with what Jesus was trying to talk to those that were gathered about.
Really, we can see that he was weighed down with a distraction,
anxieties over personal issues with his brother.
Rather than focusing in on what Jesus had prepared for them
that would really prepare them for the future,
he was distracted with these mundane things.
And likely he really didn't hear anything that Jesus had to say.
Not only was this man distracted, but he single-handedly distracted thousands of others.
And no doubt those that were gathered had their own anxieties and that they were thinking about.
But did the distractions from this man become Jesus distractions?
No.
Rather, Jesus refused to be drawn into this dispute over some material things.
His response is found in our scriptural theme for today, Luke 12 and verse 14.
And you can imagine Jesus looking out at the crowd, finding that man and saying,
man, who appointed me judge or arbitrator between you two?
Jesus could have ruled on it.
He was perfect.
He could have stepped down away from his area that he was speaking from and addressed the man.
But he did not.
It was not the time.
It was not the place.
And it really wasn't Jesus place to get involved.
Jesus did not allow this man to break his focus, his spiritual focus and his real purpose for coming to the earth.
And what is that?
John 3 and verse 17 says,
for God did not send his son into the world for him to judge the world,
but for the world to be saved through him.
So Jesus knew that it was the time and the place to give instruction to his followers.
Prepare them for the future, point them towards Jehovah and the kingdom.
Knowing that we are imperfect and easily distracted.
Jesus reminds us in verse 15 of the chapter 12,
what is needed.
He said to them, not just the man, but to all those gathered.
Keep your eyes open and guard against every sort of greed or the footnote says covetousness.
Because even when a man has an abundance, his life does not result from the things he possesses.
So what was Jesus trying to get across?
Yes, they had anxieties.
They had distractions, but they needed to keep focus.
Their eyes need to be looking at what lay ahead and how they could serve Jehovah acceptably.
But he also warned against allowing anxieties to turn into distractions.
Note verse 29 of chapter 12.
He said, stop seeking or focusing on what you will eat and what you would drink and stop being in anxious suspense.
And verse 30 goes on to say that's what happens in the world.
That's what people are pursuing today.
But he said, stop, stop focusing, stop seeking.
And we think about the word anxious.
Jesus used this quite a bit within this chapter and other discussions he had with his listeners.
What does the word anxious mean?
The Greek verb rendered be anxious means to have the mind distracted.
The word distract.
Where does that come from?
It's interesting to note that distract comes from the Latin word tractus,
meaning to be pulled or dragged.
And this gives us the root word tracked.
So to attract would be drawing towards something.
And to distract means to pull someone's attention away from something.
So this is what's happening every day of our lives.
We could be attracted to something or distracted from something.
And really distractions come in all shapes and sizes.
In fact, my little illustration here will help us to appreciate that they come in various colors,
various shades and sizes.
Now what happens with distractions?
We know that they come in from external means and sometimes from ourselves.
We cause some of our anxieties and some of our distractions.
But if we do not keep our focus,
what eventually happens to distractions?
They become our main focus.
We're not able to see past them.
We need to continually keep our eyes open so that we can continue to serve Jehovah.
Well, distractions for all of us come in various shapes and sizes.
It could be our health concerns of our mate ourselves, our aging parents.
It could be a loss of a loved one or how we can provide for our family.
It could be the responsibilities that we have, the assignments.
It could be weighing us down or it could be our goal to have more responsibilities.
We see other brothers that are gaining responsibilities and we would wish to have those.
Well, all of these could become the center of our life and distract us from our service.
But we want to remember that when anxieties and distractions threaten us,
there's something that we can do about it.
A quote that I found that was, I thought was appropriate,
said, starve your distractions, feed your focus.
Well, how do we starve our distractions and feed our focus?
We go to something that Jesus said 2,000 years ago that has been the key to faithful servants ever since.
And that is in chapter 12 and verse 31 of Luke, he says,
keep seeking or focusing on the kingdom and all these other things will be added to you.
And then in verse 34, for where your treasure is, that is where your heart will be also.
So as we seek the kingdom and we treasure what Jehovah has within that kingdom,
we know that's where our heart will be and we can lessen our anxieties.
And we think about faithful servants in the past before Jesus, like David,
they had anxieties like you and me.
He was a king.
He had many opportunities to be surrounded with spiritual people.
But even he faced times that he needed help.
Heat treasure drawing close to Jehovah with prayer.
In fact, one of my go to scriptures and maybe one of yours is what he said at Psalm 34 and verse 19.
It's Psalm 94 and verse 19.
When anxieties or the footnote says,
disquieting thoughts overwhelm me, you comforted me and soothe me.
That really helps us when we're going through anxieties and distractions.
Along with asking Jehovah for help and calmness of heart, calmness of mind,
we do our best to apply what Paul said at Hebrews 2 and verse 1 to pay more than the usual attention
to the things we have heard so that we never drift away.
That's what happened to the man that raised the objection to Jesus.
His mind wandered.
He drifted away and he allowed others to be distracted as well.
We want to copy Jesus Christ who always had that spiritual focus well in mind.
And we want to have our service to Jehovah to the best of our ability to be focused without allowing any distractions
to take us out of the race for life.